< Scheduler at time 12:00 and 0 events >

                            THE GREEDY GARGOYLE
                           A 5-Minute Text Puzzle
                               by Joe Strout

Holding your latern high, you cautiously explore the stone panel before you. 
According to the maps, the entrance to the tomb should be right at the end of
this passageway -- but you find only smooth stone.

Just as you're about to give up and go home, your fingers catch on a small
indentation on the adjoining wall.  When you press the knob inside, the panel
spins around, carrying you with it.

You find yourself in a small room.  The panel through which you entered joins
perfectly with the wall on this side, leaving no hope of returning the way you
came.  You'd been studying for years to find a way into the tomb -- now, if you
can just find a way out...




[Press Return.]




Fountain Room
You're in a small room with walls of stone.  In the middle of the room is a
raised stone pool filled with water.  To the north is a great stone door, into
which a gargoyle has been carved with amazingly lifelike detail.



>Warning: unknown word blarg
Huh?!?

>...at WHAT?!?

Fountain Room
You're in a small room with walls of stone.  In the middle of the room is a
raised stone pool filled with water.  To the north is a great stone door, into
which a gargoyle has been carved with amazingly lifelike detail.



>Warning: unknown word blag
Put what where?!?

>
Fountain Room
You're in a small room with walls of stone.  In the middle of the room is a
raised stone pool filled with water.  To the north is a great stone door, into
which a gargoyle has been carved with amazingly lifelike detail.



>The pool is composed of circular stone walls about a foot high and five feet
across.  The floor of the pool is also depressed several inches below the floor
of the room.  It's filled with a clear liquid that appears to be water.

>The gargoyle is carved into the door with amazing three-dimensional relief. 
Its face wears an exaggerated expression of boredom.  Its hand juts out from
the door, palm up.

>You are carrying:
   - a gold coin
   - a lamp (lit)

>It's a small coin, but from the gold color and elaborate pattern stamped into
it, you know it's quite valuable.

>As you place the coin in the gargoyle's palm, its face comes to life.  It cocks
one bulging eye at the coin for a moment, then nods approvingly.  With the help
of a clawed finger, it begins to count -- but, finding only one coin in its
palm, it stops abruptly and throws the coin down in disgust.

>
Fountain Room
You're in a small room with walls of stone.  In the middle of the room is a
raised stone pool filled with water.  To the north is a great stone door, into
which a gargoyle has been carved with amazingly lifelike detail.

  There is a gold coin here.


The gargoyle resumes its original pose on the door and freezes in position,
apparently nothing more than lifeless stone.


>  Enter a name for this game, default is pub.dat.  Saving game to disk...
  Game saved as pub.dat

>You get the gold coin.

>You get 3 tin coins.

>As you place the false coinage in the gargoyle's hand, its face springs to
life.  It cocks a bulging eye at your offering.  Noting the dull grey color and
featureless surfaces, its eyes grow wide.  With an angry flick of its arm, it
hurls 3 tin coins over your head.

>  Enter a save game to load, default is pub.dat.  Restoring game from disk...
  Game pub.dat restored

Fountain Room
You're in a small room with walls of stone.  In the middle of the room is a
raised stone pool filled with water.  To the north is a great stone door, into
which a gargoyle has been carved with amazingly lifelike detail.

  There is a gold coin here.


>
Fountain Room
You're in a small room with walls of stone.  In the middle of the room is a
raised stone pool filled with water.  To the north is a great stone door, into
which a gargoyle has been carved with amazingly lifelike detail.

  There is a gold coin here.


>You get the gold coin.

>You get 3 tin coins.

>You turn off the lamp.

>It's too dark to see much.

  The gargoyle on the door glows faintly in the dark, as magical items
frequently do.


>It takes a bit of groping, but you manage it...
As you place 3 tin coins into the gargoyle's glowing hand, its face comes to
life once again.  It cocks an eye at the dark round shapes in its hand. 
Frowning, it turns them over and appears to be judging their weight.  With a
shrug, it lifts a clawed finger and begins counting.
It stabs its finger at the coins three times, and compares this to the three
clawed toes on its foot.  Apparently satisfied, the gargoyle opens its mouth
and tosses the coins down.

>It's too dark to see much.

  The gargoyle on the door glows faintly in the dark, as magical items
frequently do.

Grinning, the gargoyle splits in half, right down the middle.  His two halves
separate and slide apart, taking the two halves of the great stone door with
them.  A dark passageway extends beyond the door to the north.

>You head north.

Congratulations!
You've gotten past the greedy gargoyle -- and it only cost you three fake
coins!  Nicely done.  You may examine the credits, or quit.

  There is the credits here.


>The Greedy Gargoyle was written on May 11, 1996 by Joseph J. Strout, using the
Python Universe Builder (also by J. Strout).  It was refitted by Lalo Martins
on Jul 2, 2002 when PUB was turned into a Python Package. At the time of this
writing, there have been no beta testers; give me some constructive comments
and I'll put your name in this space!

>  Are you sure you want to quit? Y/y/N/n (Default No): Quitting game.
